docs/src/local_configuration.md, before:

# Local Configuration

When managing multiple git repositories with GRM, you'll generally have a
configuration file containing information about all the repos you have. GRM then
makes sure that you repositories match that configuration. If they don't exist
yet, it will clone them. It will also make sure that all remotes are configured
properly.

Let's try it out:

## Get the example configuration

```bash
$ curl --proto '=https' --tlsv1.2 -sSfO https://raw.githubusercontent.com/hakoerber/git-repo-manager/master/example.config.toml
```

Then, you're ready to run the first sync. This will clone all configured
repositories and set up the remotes.

```bash
$ grm repos sync config --config example.config.toml
[⚙] Cloning into "/home/me/projects/git-repo-manager" from "https://code.hkoerber.de/hannes/git-repo-manager.git"
[✔] git-repo-manager: Repository successfully cloned
[⚙] git-repo-manager: Setting up new remote "github" to "https://github.com/hakoerber/git-repo-manager.git"
[✔] git-repo-manager: OK
[⚙] Cloning into "/home/me/projects/dotfiles" from "https://github.com/hakoerber/dotfiles.git"
[✔] dotfiles: Repository successfully cloned
[✔] dotfiles: OK
```

If you run it again, it will report no changes:

```
$ grm repos sync config -c example.config.toml
[✔] git-repo-manager: OK
[✔] dotfiles: OK
```

### Generate your own configuration

Now, if you already have a few repositories, it would be quite laborious to
write a configuration from scratch. Luckily, GRM has a way to generate a
configuration from an existing file tree:

```bash
$ grm repos find local ~/your/project/root > config.toml
```

This will detect all repositories and remotes and write them to `config.toml`.

### Show the state of your projects

```bash
$ grm repos status --config example.config.toml
╭──────────────────┬──────────┬────────┬───────────────────┬────────┬─────────╮
│ Repo             ┆ Worktree ┆ Status ┆ Branches          ┆ HEAD   ┆ Remotes │
╞══════════════════╪══════════╪════════╪═══════════════════╪════════╪═════════╡
│ git-repo-manager ┆          ┆ ✔      ┆ branch: master    ┆ master ┆ github  │
│                  ┆          ┆        ┆ <origin/master> ✔ ┆        ┆ origin  │
├╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌┼╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌┼╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌┼╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌┼╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌┼╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌┤
│ dotfiles         ┆          ┆ ✔      ┆                   ┆ Empty  ┆ origin  │
╰──────────────────┴──────────┴────────┴───────────────────┴────────┴─────────╯
```

You can also use `status` without `--config` to check the repository you're
currently in:

```
$ cd ~/example-projects/dotfiles
$ grm repos status
╭──────────┬──────────┬────────┬──────────┬───────┬─────────╮
│ Repo     ┆ Worktree ┆ Status ┆ Branches ┆ HEAD  ┆ Remotes │
╞══════════╪══════════╪════════╪══════════╪═══════╪═════════╡
│ dotfiles ┆          ┆ ✔      ┆          ┆ Empty ┆ origin  │
╰──────────┴──────────┴────────┴──────────┴───────┴─────────╯
```

## YAML

By default, the repo configuration uses TOML. If you prefer YAML, just give it a
YAML file instead (file ending does not matter, `grm` will figure out the
format).  For generating a configuration, pass `--format yaml` to `grm repo
find` which generates a YAML configuration instead of a TOML configuration.

Commit message:

docs: Document the --exclude flag

docs/src/local_configuration.md, after:

# Local Configuration

When managing multiple git repositories with GRM, you'll generally have a
configuration file containing information about all the repos you have. GRM then
makes sure that you repositories match that configuration. If they don't exist
yet, it will clone them. It will also make sure that all remotes are configured
properly.

Let's try it out:

## Get the example configuration

```bash
curl --proto '=https' --tlsv1.2 -sSfO https://raw.githubusercontent.com/hakoerber/git-repo-manager/master/example.config.toml
```

Then, you're ready to run the first sync. This will clone all configured
repositories and set up the remotes.

```bash
$ grm repos sync config --config example.config.toml
[⚙] Cloning into "/home/me/projects/git-repo-manager" from "https://code.hkoerber.de/hannes/git-repo-manager.git"
[✔] git-repo-manager: Repository successfully cloned
[⚙] git-repo-manager: Setting up new remote "github" to "https://github.com/hakoerber/git-repo-manager.git"
[✔] git-repo-manager: OK
[⚙] Cloning into "/home/me/projects/dotfiles" from "https://github.com/hakoerber/dotfiles.git"
[✔] dotfiles: Repository successfully cloned
[✔] dotfiles: OK
```

If you run it again, it will report no changes:

```bash
$ grm repos sync config -c example.config.toml
[✔] git-repo-manager: OK
[✔] dotfiles: OK
```

### Generate your own configuration

Now, if you already have a few repositories, it would be quite laborious to
write a configuration from scratch. Luckily, GRM has a way to generate a
configuration from an existing file tree:

```bash
grm repos find local ~/your/project/root > config.toml
```

This will detect all repositories and remotes and write them to `config.toml`.

You can exclude repositories from the generated configuration by providing
a regex that will be test against the path of each discovered repository:

```bash
grm repos find local ~/your/project/root --exclude "^.*/subdir/match-(foo|bar)/.*$" > config.toml
```

### Show the state of your projects

```bash
$ grm repos status --config example.config.toml
╭──────────────────┬──────────┬────────┬───────────────────┬────────┬─────────╮
│ Repo             ┆ Worktree ┆ Status ┆ Branches          ┆ HEAD   ┆ Remotes │
╞══════════════════╪══════════╪════════╪═══════════════════╪════════╪═════════╡
│ git-repo-manager ┆          ┆ ✔      ┆ branch: master    ┆ master ┆ github  │
│                  ┆          ┆        ┆ <origin/master> ✔ ┆        ┆ origin  │
├╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌┼╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌┼╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌┼╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌┼╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌┼╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌┤
│ dotfiles         ┆          ┆ ✔      ┆                   ┆ Empty  ┆ origin  │
╰──────────────────┴──────────┴────────┴───────────────────┴────────┴─────────╯
```

You can also use `status` without `--config` to check the repository you're
currently in:

```bash
$ cd ~/example-projects/dotfiles
$ grm repos status
╭──────────┬──────────┬────────┬──────────┬───────┬─────────╮
│ Repo     ┆ Worktree ┆ Status ┆ Branches ┆ HEAD  ┆ Remotes │
╞══════════╪══════════╪════════╪══════════╪═══════╪═════════╡
│ dotfiles ┆          ┆ ✔      ┆          ┆ Empty ┆ origin  │
╰──────────┴──────────┴────────┴──────────┴───────┴─────────╯
```

## YAML

By default, the repo configuration uses TOML. If you prefer YAML, just give it a
YAML file instead (file ending does not matter, `grm` will figure out the
format). For generating a configuration, pass `--format yaml` to `grm repo
find` which generates a YAML configuration instead of a TOML configuration.
